From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two Oh one recorded
live Friday, February 12th, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
Tellerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Chris Hardy
about mano touch and the
creation of an iPhone app.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. This is
episode two Oh one beginning
of the next 200 lots
and lots of stuff to
come. And today we're sitting
down with Chris Hardy, who
is in fact calling in
from the UK. How's it
going, Chris? I'm well, now,
Chris, you're an asp.net developer.
You work for a company
in the UK called great
Fridays, and you work on
asp.net MVC. You even have
a weblog at weblogs.asp.net/chris Hardy,
but as I wander around
on your weblogs.asp.net blog, I
see mano touch view, my
motto touch session, mano touch
examples.com. Examples for want to
touch sounds like you have
a night job. Yeah, that's
kind of how it is
at the moment. And we
had Miguel and some of
the folks from mano over
to talk a little bit
about monotone, but maybe for
folks that are not familiar
with that show, just give
us a brief kind of
overview about what mano touch
is and why are you
so passionate about it? Even
though you're in an asp.net
developer by day, Kind of,
I want to do.net development
on a map, and they've
been kind of playing around
with NBC on the map,
but it hasn't really gotten
to a stage where I
really want to use something
that on a mat and
when mountain such came along,
which is, you know, the
open source implementation of, of
mano. And I can use
that with, with the iPhone.
I feel great. It's a
chance to use one map
to do.net work and who
doesn't want to write it.
And I found out, so
I thought that'd be a
good opportunity to start using
my Mac as a, as
a.net machine. So what is
involved to wa walk me
through the bill of lading
of the things that I
would need to go and
write an application and how
much do I need to
know about max stuff and
how much am I really
leveraging? Cause I think what's
interesting about your story is
that you're in a, an
asp.net developer by day in
the sense that that is
your day job, right? You're,
you're not a necessarily a
Mac person. You're a professional
paid dotted programmer. How much
of your skills are really
coming from the.net framework and
knowledge, the managed managed code
and C sharp. And how
much is this coming from?
Some kind of subconscious and
Mack knowledge that you might
have Say we were doing
kind of iPhone development. Lots
of it does come from
knowing.net, but then you've also
kind of got monitor touch
as a, as a kind
of SDK and the, and
the framework that she, you
kind of have to learn
as well as kind of
learning, using your.net skills. So
if I was going from,
so using web forms to
MBC, it's still using C
sharp, but you have to,
then you have to learn
the framework. What is required
to do this? I need
to download what on what
machine walk me through, walk
me through what's necessary. Yeah.
So you need to have
a Intel map to start
off with. So if you've
got power PC knock, unfortunately
what, and that's Apple restriction
that they put on. So
what you first need to
do is you need to
download the, the iPhone SDK
from the Apple store, from
the Apple site, even, and
then you go on the
Nobel website, you download mano
Justin through that 2.6 at
the moment you downloaded mano
develop, which is essentially visual
studio. And then you download
the monitor touch framework, get
that installed. And then your,
you did today. And how
much of this cost me
and how much of this
is open source. So the
open source parts, Manoa, and,
and monitor developed. So you
can use that to create
a web forms sites as
the.net MVC sites, we've monitored.
You either have to pay
for, for a license, or
you can use the evaluation
version, which limits you to,
to some things in terms
of you can't put it
on the device. So you
can, you can at least
develop most of your app
kind of without having to
pay anything upfront. What is
this framework look like? I
mean, is this, is this
file new iPhone app? Or
do I make a WinForms
app? And then add some
references. I want to juxtapose
it to the existing ways
we do stuff Done with,
with one of the developers,
if they've created an iPhone
add in for it. So
you guys file name and
then create a new iPhone
project. And that kind of
puts a lots of, kind
of the underlying code that
you need to load up
the app onto the, onto
the device by default. So
you don't have to kind
of worry about setting that
up from scratch. Is there
a base form or, I
mean, I know that the
iPhone has a number of
UI metaphors that are very
specific. They're the way that
they do their lists, their
sliding panels, or do these,
do these feel like controls?
I pull over from a
toolbox. Yeah. So you, you
probably won't want to use
a toolbox. So there's a,
there's a tool called interface
builder, which if you're an
objective C programmer, you would
use X code, which is
similar to kind of, is
it it's an IDE, so
you can either use the
interface builder and that way
you can kind of clicking
and drag controls onto that,
like a designer surface. So
then you can also just
do that in code if
you really want to. So
what you use is you
basically use the monitoring framework,
which has just basically bound
the objective C libraries that
you had used in normal
life and development. So it
works within a C sharp
in monotone. Okay. So if
I'm understanding this correctly correctly,
I create my, my window,
my zip in the interface
designer that creates the interface
designer is not mano touch
specific. So that's creating objective,
see stuff in the background
that I can choose not
to look at. And then
I hook that up somehow
with managed code. How do
I tell the managed code
about the stuff that the
interface dissenter generated? So by
default, what it will do
is it will, when you
create an new controller view
controller, it will automatically add
in a few methods, which
allow you to, it will
for you, it will call
the VIB that links to
links to your, your view
controller name. So you didn't
have to worry about how
it connects to that zip.
What you do need to
kind of worry about is
how you get the information
that's on the zip lock
into your, into your code.
And you do this by
using outlet, which is kind
of a way of creating
an instance variable was for
a class that you have,
And the word you just
said was outlet. Is that
correct? Our lab? Yeah. So
that's a, an Apple name.
So basically controls are on
your design surface And are
these just shared variables? So
what it will do is
it will create a designer
dot CSS file, and that
will create a partial partial
methods and, and, and your
basically your, your instance, our
troubles for our class, and
that will get generated when
you saved your zip. So
you didn't even have to
write any of the type
code. So if I were
to drop a button on
the page and hook up
a button, click, it just
took up a button click
event, or is it, is
it, is it more than
that? And I just, cause
what I'm used to doing
in.net is I drop a
button. I double click, I
get my button click event,
and then I can refer
to a text box, text
box, one dot text. What's
the same thing look like
in this world. So what
you would, you can either
do it two ways. If
you're going to go down
using, using a zip in
the interface builder, you would
then create a, an action
as a, as a bottom
pressure action. And you would
link that to, to a
type of action that would
happen on a button. And
in, in objective C, this
is known as touch up
inside. So when you let
go of a button, it
will follow this action. What
this does in your, in
your designer file is it
will create a partial method,
which you can then just
use within your view controller
that will get fired whenever
the buttons pressed off. So
you would, you want to,
in your view controller, you
want create a partial method
to kind of get the
action when it, when it's
fired off and on the
contrast, what you can also
do is you can just
write your buttoning code. So
you go, a button equals
a UI button doc from
pipe, and then this way
it will create a, a
default button that you can
use. And then I'll not,
you've got C sharp style
events. So you can just
use a touch up inside,
for example, and then you
can create the delicate method,
which will then fire off
when you click on the
button. So you can do
it to kind of ways
Are these events that are
attached to UI elements, part
of mano touch, or are
they just projections of what's
happening in objective C applied
to monitors? I mean like
a button has a touch
up and a touchdown, but
is that, is that a,
a, an Apple thing or
is that a touch thing?
It's a, a, it's a
more than such thing in
the way that it handles
it. Normally what you would
do is you would create
a delegate for the whole,
for the whole class. And
then that way the, the,
the, the methods we get
cooled for that delegate so
that it would take care
of it. And as a
delegate in, in objective C,
but just kind of ease
of kind of understanding it
from adult in that point
of view, the C shot
found events, but you can
also just create a new
delegate and override methods that
way. Have you found that
this is the easiest way
for a dotnet programmer to
do an app like this?
Or have you ever found
yourself digging into the objective
C and saying, I want
to just do this in,
I don't know, crazy cuckoos
C language. I just started
doing kind of objet to
see before kind of monotypes
was around. And I only
got so far, I managed
to put a button on
so I can click on
it. So then I kinda
got stuck and I found
it very difficult to predict
kind of requests and, and
thinking about that. So in
terms of, if I ever
wanted to do kind of
object to see stuff, then
I don't ever see me
going back in and try
and not just cause it's,
it's, it's different way of
thinking. You still need to,
you need to know the
cocoa touch framework, which is
kind of the underlying, as
you said, there's kind of
table views and things like
this, but you only ever
look at the Apple documentation.
You don't ever need to
go back to a jet
to see and go, how
does this work, I'm going
to do it and object
it. It's pretty seamless in
terms of looking at kind
of object to see code
and translating that over to
see shot really. Cause the
reason I ask is that
I'm trying to get my
head around if this is
a, you know, a clever,
a clever hack and you
know, an interesting bit of
spackle on top of something,
because apparently thousands of developers
are able to figure out
the obscurities of objective C,
which I find visually just
very difficult. I, I just,
I cannot get my brain
cells to fire around objective
C, is this, you know,
a crutch that has been
created or is this really
something interesting? I mean maybe
if you just pushed another
week, you'd be, it'd be
more powerful and you could
do more with objective C.
That's kinda what I'm trying
to, to reconcile. I mean,
you're only really kind of
limited by, what's not bound
to monitor for the jet
to see. So what monitor
does for the most case,
if you're not using.net kind
of classes such as web
client, for instance, if you,
if you're just using kind
of the, the cocoa touch
framework. So you've got a
UI view controller, for example,
all that's doing is calling
objective C behind the scenes.
So you're only limited in
terms of what, what monitor
touch has found and this,
they haven't found it. You
can always go and find
it yourself. So you, you,
you only limited in a
way where you have to
maybe write more code. I
think the clear advantage of
using monitors as a, as
a.net developer is, is code
reuse reality. So what I
can do is I can
create a separate project where
I kind of have proxies
and have separate code in
terms of going off to
get data and receiving data.
And then I'll be able
to either take that and
put it on, on another
app and have it run
pretty much the same, because
it's just on that code.
Or for instance, if you
wanted to use flicker library,
there's flicker.net, which is an
open source library. And I
think there's about eight lines
that you need to change
to get it to what
we monitor. So I can
reuse that thought in that
library within my monitor chap,
that that's pretty powerful. Now,
can you give me an
idea of what kind of
those without, without remembering those
exact date lines, what kind
of stuff would I want
to change? I mean, is
that just one example where
I, where you got lucky
and a really well written
open source app poured it
over nicely, or is it
that complete that you can
really go and say, you
know, flickr.net and move the
Facebook STK and get a
little Twitter action and you
really can use proper desktop
libraries on this, on this
phone. I, I think you're,
you're kind of limited in
terms of, I think, I
think it was much nicer
than thinking about if this
will run on, on kind
of a silver light.net runtime.
I think that's probably the
best way of thinking about
it because apart from using
kind of, kind of reflection
to submit, which you're not
allowed to do, you kind
of only limited in terms
of what mano a mano
exposed as, as, as a,
as a framework, really. So
whatever will work in mano
will pretty much lightly work
with, with monitor such that
it depends on whether you
does use sorts of things
like reflections or Hi. This
is Scott Hanselman from another
parallel universe, gotta tell you
about some of our things
our sponsors are doing. They
make this free podcast possible.
If you're developing a new
line of business application, you've
probably tried the latest version
of server line. Now you
can get even better results
by combining the functionality and
server Lite for beta, with
some of the richness or
the third party controls from
our friends at Tellerik, they're
the first vendors to offer
native support for the server
Lite for beta and their
rad controls. You've got a
new Silverlight for CTP suite
of these controls. They let
you tap into the frameworks,
great potential. You got native
right mouse click and all
the new features of server
line there's 38 controls that
give you all these features.
You can start building those
compelling line of business applications
right away. I encourage you
to check those products out
at tellerik.com/silverlight and, you know,
thank Tellerik for supporting Don
and rock supporting Hansel minutes
on their Facebook fan page
at facebook.com/tellerik. Now back to
the show. So a couple
of months ago, I think,
let me see. I think
it was in November, I
was on Twitter and I,
which is like a typical
Tuesday for me. And someone
said someone had contacted me.
I knew, I don't know
who it was. It was
some slimy marketing person who
said, Hey, we can make
a Hansel minutes podcast Mo
you know, a pot I
touch application or iPod application
for, for a dollar 99.
So basically I would agree
to do this. I'd give
them the graphics. They would
say poof, and I don't
know, some monkeys would start
slapping a keyboard. They had
a, basically a podcast application
construction set of some guy.
They would take like 50%
of the profits. And what
does it, how Apple takes,
how much 30, 30%, maybe
20, 30%, something like that.
So let's, let's say we
sell it for $2 and
then Apple takes, you know,
30, 40 cents. And then the
remaining dollar 60 gets split
up. So I get 80 cents.
Again, the show is not
a, by any means a,
a big profit center at
all. We pay for the
bandwidth. We pay for the,
the producer and the editors.
And, you know, without, without
Tellerik, we would be in
a, in a pickle. So
it wasn't like we were
going to get rich with
this app, but I threw
that on, on, on, on
Twitter. And lots of people
were like, yo, that's slimy.
Don't do that. You're a
sell out. It should be
free. And other people were
like, Oh, it's built in
podcasting features are built into
the iPhone. But most interesting
was a tweet from you.
And you said, I'd rather
it was for free. And
we built it with mano
touch and failing me doing
it. You said, you'd do
it. So of course you
put yourself out there and
I said, let's do it.
And you, you did you,
in fact, built a Hansel
minutes, iPhone app in mano
touch and you went and
put it up on OncoPLEX.
Yep. It looks like it
says zero version 0.01. So
it's very early, but walk
me through what you built,
why it's different and you
know, how hard it is
and where we could potentially
take this, this application. And
also, I want to understand,
would the user ever know
that mano and C sharp
were, were being used to
do this? Okay. So kind
of where I started with
it was I felt, you
know, that's this thought boat
in the iPhone out from,
from stock and what kind
of features that we would
need. And I thought that,
you know, by default, what
we need is kind of,
you can play a cost.
You know? So when I
went with, I think we
discussed the ideas of, of
what we could, we could
do in the, in the
podcast. And those ideas have
kind of stopped playing the
podcast. Then you could, when
you close the app, it
would carry on running. But
unfortunately, because of some iPhone
restrictions, that was impossible. So
what I wanted to do
is simply get to RSS
feed of, of your, of
your podcast and stream them
I've over the iPhone. And
then we would build on
that from, from kind of
a nerdy release and kind
of get out to people,
kind of looked at it,
and then it kind of
hits a it's a wool,
rarely. So streaming on the
iPhone is actually quite difficult.
You have to use audio
cue services and audio buffering
services. And that's just something
I didn't really want to
get into. So as a
kind of hack, I used
the, a web client class,
and this is kind of
dope and I'm kind of
drawn it and was able
to do is download the
data, download a file, which
is the MP three file.
And as soon as it
sounded loaded enough of the,
of the app, it would
just simply stop playing and
be playing the file. And
that's kind of, it was
pretty good. And then the
good thing about playing it
straight from the file is
you're not going to be
constantly calling to the internet
and basically killing the battery
on the iPhone. And I
thought, well, if we're going
to be putting the files
on the, onto the device,
you might as well have
them say, people can play
it on offline. So there's
a bit of code in
there, which basically says, you
know, am I connected to
the internet? Yes. All, no.
And if you are what
to do that will first
save the, the XML file
of your RSS feed, which
is a list of all
the podcasts. And then if
you're offline, it would just
show that, and we'll have
a little tick next to
it, whether you're online or
you're offline. And whether you
found out that the, the,
the podcast previously, and then
there's a little bit of
work in terms of kinda
gonna slide at work and
I'm playing of an audio
on, on the device, but
this is pretty straightforward after
looking at kind of the
Apple documentation and kind of
one of the things that
I kind of fell short
of was trying to find
a way of playing the
audio and having it so
I could stream it was
just, wasn't going to be
an option. So I think
playing it from the devices
a much better idea, this,
this is not just the
coolest problems in terms of,
I was trying to get
it working so much where
you could, you could just
play it and then you
can pull it. It doesn't
even show you kind of
what podcast you're listening to.
So there's plenty of room
for improvement on that side.
This code is up at
Hansel minutes, iphone.covid.com. And we'll
put this on the show
notes, but I'm looking through
some of the code here.
We've got the home view
controller, cause you, it looks
like you've got two zip
files. There's home view controllers.
Zeb is again, is that
interface builder. And then there's
main window. What are the
differences between those two windows?
So the, the, the main
window they've found is it's
kind of like the default
when, when the, when the
iPhone loads up your app,
what it will do is
it'll place always a view
that you ever kind of
see onto a window. So
that's kinda like a base,
a base holder. So to
get it to show volume
view controller, you basically pass
you, you create a new
version of your view controller,
and then you add it
as a sub view. So
that's how that works. So
are you saying that one
of these gets shown immediately
upon launch? And the other
one is the one that
you sit at? I mean,
which one is main window?
The one that we look
at most of the time,
or is home view controller,
the one we look at
most of the time, You
look at home view controller,
which is actually on the
main window, you just added
it as a self view.
So you, you, you only
actually see the home, you
control it. What's the main
window is, is a white
background, which is just expecting
views to be loaded on
top of it. I see
everything hangs off of it.
Yes, that's correct. Okay. So
I'm looking at this code
and I, again, we're talking
about code on an audio
podcast, so there's a little,
you know, I recognize it.
There's a little irony there,
but it just, you know,
public partial class, home view
controller derives from UI view
controller, it looks like a
perfectly reasonable code. And the
part, the things that I'm
immediately struck by, which I
think is probably a Testament
to the cleverness of the
model touch guys. And I'm
interested in your thoughts are
I see where you've got
the, you download our complete
MP3 feed and you say
environment dot, get folder, path,
special folder personal. That's what
you do on windows to
get the, my documents folder.
Yeah. And you're limited on
the, on the device in
terms of where you can
put files once you've, when
you, when you can put
files anywhere, you're limited, you're
in the sandbox. So that
allows you to put files
somewhere, but not kind of
anywhere on the device. I
think that's very clever way
for them to do that.
I mean, why make a
new method when one that
a C sharp programmer will
already understand is available. And
then you've got a few
things like start audio session
where you're basically letting the
system know that you're an
application that's going to play
back and you've got start
internet activity, which is a
little helper function of your
own. And this is interesting
because on an iPhone, when
you're talking to the internet,
there's that little spinner, little
kind of Ajax you spinner.
And in here, you're calling
UI application dot shared application
network activity, indicator visible. So
sounds like a monotonic construct.
That's on top of some
shared resource that iPhones have
available to it. So what
it does is you applications
kind of data that your
application has available to it.
So it's, so what you
can do with, with shared
application is it's really talking
to the main, main iPhone.
So you have network activity
indicate the visible. So that,
that creates that little icon
where it's going connect the
internet, but you also have
stuff kind of like a
batch batch number or something
like that, application icon, badge
number. So that's a way
where you can set the
badge number with a little
red, red number on the
badge. One of the things
I thought was particularly interesting
as I was reading through
the source here is not
only that you were using
API, that I know how
to use like web client
and, and using basically metaphors
I was familiar with. But
when you were going through
the feed, the, the XML
feed you were using what
appear to be linked to
XML. Yeah, that's correct. Yeah.
So it's just an easy
way of kind of, Creighton's
a list of a list
of a podcast really from,
from the feed. So don't
have to think of a
new way of creating a
new list of, of podcasts
really. So I can just
reuse kind of the ability.
Would you, would you even
know how to do that
on a regular iPhone, how
to parse XML, do they
have their own way to
do that kind of thing?
I think what they tried
it, and it's actually really
horrible XML pausing on the,
on the iPhone and objective
C it's basically event driven.
So it tells you when
you reach a new and
when you finish a note
and then you have to
kind of work out everything
in between, that was a
pain. Sounds like the old
style XML reader. Yeah. Yeah.
It's, it's, it's it, wasn't
very nice. And I did
do it once and never
again. So, And you were
able to use link everywhere.
You even had a line
here when you're just about
ready to terminate the application
where you say for each
file in document dot where,
and then you have a
Lambda to say contains partial
that MP3 basically it's your
let's tidy up and any
partially downloaded MP3 files, which
I thought was kind of
interesting and you get it
up, just using a nice
little bit of link, an
extension method and a Lambda,
which makes me think that
there's really everything that we're
familiar with as, as.net programmers
is available in this, in
this model touch. Yeah. I
think, I think for kind
of the base cost library
and things like that, I
think you can pretty much
reuse most of the stuff.
I mean, you're kind of
limited in terms of, if
you're going to be displaying
data onto a, onto a
VA, you're going to have
to use the, the constructs
that kind of the Apple
cocoa touch framework provides. So
in terms of displaying and
actually viewing data, I think
if you're going to move
it to another platform, you
can have to rewrite that
stuff. Then tell us a
building up or objects. You
kind of, you've got all
that code that you can
reuse Know. It's interesting that
you say that because, you
know, I'm, I'm, I'm excited
about windows, windows, mobile phone,
or windows, phone seven, whatever
it is that they're coming
out with the next version
of windows phones, cause you
know, one, everyone wants the
new exciting thing. So, you
know, whatever we're going to
come out with, at least
it will be new and
fun and people will get
excited about it. And I'm
thinking, I was thinking to
myself, wow, okay. Can I
write an app? That'll run
on both of these, but
it seems like the metaphor,
once you get out of
the, the abstract, once you
get, once you get out
of the non UI world,
it gets pretty hairy in
this application. I mean the,
the basics, the manipulating of
data, the retrieving of data,
it's all exactly like you'd
ride any.net app, you know,
go get some XML parse
through it, manage the file
system where things start going
crazy in this particular application
is when you start poking
around in UI table view
cells and NS index paths
and well, it's C sharp.
It's just really inscrutable. And
that's pretty much that that's
this particular UI table that
you're working with. Is that
what's going on there? Yeah,
that's correct. Yeah. So this
is where I kind of
need to stop looking at
kind of either the Apple
documentation or information that you
find on the web about
how you like UI table
views and UI table view
cells work. It's, it's quite
a different mindset. So as
I said, the kind of,
if you use a web,
I go to NBC it's,
it's kind of like that
you can understand and you
can reach out, but the
underlying framework is slightly different.
Are there any other applications
that are in the app
store, other than this iPhone
application? My company actually cooked
great. Friday's Christmas 2009. Sorry.
Yeah. Christmas-y as you might
expect. And that was kind
of very different in terms
of what I was literally
doing was kind of showing
a video and that involved
a lot more kind of
working out kind of how
to build an iPhone app
using monitor, touch as kind
of the bindings to objective,
to see, rather than I
can reuse all my dotnet
skills. So I could have
probably easily wrote the app
in an object to see,
but it was, it was
good to play around with
kind of monitor and kind
of, I can understand things
easier cause it was going
to see shop and it
was easier to read. So
you think that you'll do
all of your iPhone development
and this year you're pretty
much sold on montage. Do
you think it's ready? It's
ready to go. It's been
in production. Your users will
never know. You'll just feel
that you're more productive and
for mobile phone development on
the iPhone, this is the
way to go. Well, you
know, the team are great
in terms of saying, okay,
if you, if you give
us feedback and say this
isn't working and show, test
case challenges, I'll be fixed
that day. You really can't
be the level of support
that monitors kind of give,
give back to the customers.
And yeah, I don't, I
don't see going back to
objective C as, as, as
a, an option really just
due to, I can understand
C sharp and you know,
if Apple started a way
that they stop, they said
to you, okay, we can't
use any C sharp apps
on the app store. And
there's no reason there's a
reason why they should say
that. But in case that
was the case. I mean
the rapport they can, they
can do what they want
when it comes to the
app store. I think you've
kind of got a good
base in terms of you've
been using C sharp like
stuff. And if you've been
using UI view controller, if
you happen to go back
to get to see you
go, well, I know how
that works within C sharp,
understand it much better using
C sharp, and you can
probably go back and apply
it subjects to see if
you really have to, but
now I'm sold on, on
a search. Very cool. Well,
I'm really glad. Do you
think that you'll continue with
the podcast application if maybe
some of the listeners jump
in and want to get
involved The sources there, so
feel free to go download
it other moment. I've been
pretty busy not doing any
kind of public facing stuff.
So I'm actually writing a
monitored book for rocks. So
we're doing that with a
few guys like Wally Rory
blast involved, Martin bowling, and
I'm Craig Dunn, who there
were a lot of blog
posts in terms of getting
started with monitor. So we've
been kind of writing that
book and hope. Hopefully that'd
be out kind of summertime,
some kind of raring to
get back to writing some
proper apps actually, and, and
carry on working on, on
the podcast app. Very cool.
Well, certainly don't feel pressured
at all to finish our
podcast app and put it
on, put it in your
book. I think that'd be
an awesome sample. I say
that selfishly only because we
don't have a podcast app
yet. I'd love to get
that to help you get
that into the app store.
Yeah. I mean, there's still
tends to be a tendency
to do on, on the,
on the app in terms
of like, what we would
like is to be able
to at least carry on
leaving comments and stuff. It'd
be nice to have some
integration with kind of either
like the channel nine videos
that you do. So there's
still lots of, lots of
things to improve on and
kind of add features, which
make it a little bit
richer in terms of, you
know, you can go on
the iTunes store and download
your podcasts from that. Why
do I need an app?
So you're trying to make
it richer and more powerful.
Right? I think it would
be fun to be able
to read the comments that
are on the website and,
and, and have discussions on
the phone that are the
same discussions people having on
the web and all sorts
of things like that. Yeah.
Are you thinking about the
iPod as well? I think
the thing that's interesting about
the iPad is the size
of the screen that someone
could potentially listen to the
show, run it in the
background, or push it off
in the corner and then
browse. I think that being
able to have a link
pop up as a guest
mentions, it would be, Yeah.
I mean, we can always
integrate a web browser experience
into the app for the
iPad version, for example. And
then the great thing about
Moana touch as well, the
iPads, a new, new thing
that the SDK still under
NDA, and no one really
knows about what's happening with
it. And 24 hours after
the STK was out there
was already monitored support. So
that's something that if people
are worried about, you know,
when, when I phone, no
asphalt comes out, I want
to touch, it's going to
be out. Date shorts is
all, they probably have it
bound within 24 hours, 48
hours. So that's something that
you don't have to worry
about as well. That's great.
Selfishly, as a dotnet programmer,
I think that if I
can make mobile applications, whether
it's on the Apple platform
or the Microsoft platform, if
I'm using the stuff that
I already know, and it
allows me to get it
done faster, that that's what
I'm excited about. So it'd
be interesting to see when
the, when the very, when
the windows phone seven stuff
comes out, we'll, you know,
who's the first person to
come up with a, an
app that runs in both
places. And how much code
actually gets shared. Is it
10%? Or can you share
20, 30, 40% of the
libraries for, for doing, like
you said, law logic for
parsing and non UI related
work. Yeah. I'm, I'm hoping
that Craig and I are
going to have something around
mixed time about that, but
we'll see, We'll watch for
that. I'll put again your
blog and the application up
on, up in the show
notes and thanks a lot
for taking the time to
chat with us today. And
anytime it's great. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and I'll see you
again next week.